---
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
title: Institutional Research ePortfolio
view: 2
---

Welcome to my ePortfolio for the [the Graduate Certificate in Institutional Research at Indiana University](https://education.indiana.edu/programs/graduate/certificate/institutional-research.html)

In this ePortfolio, I will tell you about myself, reflect on the work that I've done related to Institutional Research, and provide a summary of my professional growth. Throughout this discussion, I refer to some examples of the work that I've completed over the past few years at Indiana University. You can find a copy of these examples [here](https://kirnbauer.rbind.io/publication/)

## Introduction

  I am a Ph.D. Candidate in Higher Education, with a minor in Data Science, at Indiana University. My educational journey began on Long Island (NY), where I was born and raised. I attended college at Stony Brook University (SBU), where I obtained my BA in Political Science, an MBA in Marketing, and an MS in Higher Education Administration. Due to my invovlement in co-curricular activities as an undergraduate, in 2014, I was offered a full-time job offer as the Administrative Director of the Undergraduate Student Government. In this role, I started to truly understand how a university works and the power of data to influence decision-making across the institution. I enjoyed my job as a student affairs professional, but I always knew I want to gain more expertise working with data, instead of being an end-user of it. Thus, in Summer 2017, I decided to quit my full-time job, move to Indiana, and pursue doctoral education at Indiana University.
    At Indiana University, I served as a Research Project Associate with the Center for Postsecondary Research, where I was able to gain hands-on experience working with large datasets and conducting statistical analyses. This assistantship afforded me the opportunity to present at several conferences using the National Survey of Student Engagement, Faculty Survey of Student Engagement, and Beginning College Survey of Student Engagement. During this time, I also interned for the IUPUI Instiutitonbal Research & Decision Support. Furthermore, I served as a fellow for the NCES/AIR Data Institute program in 2019. 
    The culmination of these experiences reinforced my decision to pursue a role in Institutional Research as the next step in my career. My aspirations led me to recently accept a job offer as the Assistant Director of Institutional Research & Assessment at Hofstra University. While I haven't completed my dissertation yet, I'm looking forward to beginning this full-time role that uses my skills/experiences related to IR. Eventually, after gaining more hands-on experience, I would be interested in becoming a Director of Institutional Research, or a similar senior-level role in higher education.
    For more information about me, please feel free to view my [resume](https://kirnbauer.rbind.io/files/resume.pdf).

## Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

  Several examples, inside and outside of the GCIR courses, demonstrate what I've learned related to Institutional Research. For example, as a fellow for the NCES Data Institute, I learned about the political and operational context related to state and federal higher education systems. Working with my research group, I helped write a report and deliver a presentation that analyzed the ELS survey and made suggestions for system-level changes. My experience, including a 3-day seminar in Washington, D.C., taught me about the complex dynamics in higher education between institutions, state, and the federal government. 
    I have conducted several projects that highlight my skills with core technologies and methodologies related to institutional research. For the capstone IR course, I analyzed Student Attitudes Toward Borrowing Debt. Using longitudinal data from Indiana University, I examined how students' attitudes influence their loan borrowing during their undergraduate career. The raw student-level financial data required significant data cleaning and management, all done in SPSS, to be useful for the analysis. I'm also proud to share that this research was recently accepted as a paper session, co-authored with Karyn Rabourn, at the Association for the Study of Higher Education (ASHE) 2020 Annual Conference! 
    Through my educational inquiry courses, I gained knowledge of advanced statistical methods as well. For instance, my IR capstone project used several statistical techniques - exploratory factor analysis, multivariate, and logistic regressions. Additionally, I had a poster presentation at the American Education Research Association that focused on Faculty Emphasis' on the Development of Transferable Skills. For this poster, I used structural equation modeling in R to analyze data from the Faculty Survey of Student Engagement. 
    Finally, through my assistantship and Data Science Minor, I also have developed several data visualizations. I have become well versed with Tableau, which has allowed me to become more effective at presenting numeric data. As an example, at the Association for Institutional Research Annual Form (2019), I presented a poster, "Tableau Tips and Tricks: Building Dynamic Dashboards with Survey Data," that shared some of the insights I've gained. I spent considerable time at my assistantship creating Tableau dashboards for NSSE, FSSE, and BCSSE; examples can be found [here](https://nsse.indiana.edu/fsse/findings-data-reports/interactive-reports/index.html). 
    
## Conclusion

  In summary, I have had several experiences that have provided me with a foundation to pursue a career in Institution Research: the graduate courses in the IR certificate, my assistantship at the Center for Postsecondary Research, and other experiences at Indiana University. I have gained ample skills related to data cleaning, statistical analysis, visualizations, and broadly navigating the institutional and political context. I am thankful for these experiences, and I am excited to continue to apply these skills as an IR professional.